In the hospital room, as  washing my hands, I glance in the mirror. The man I see is not so much me as my father. When did he show up? There is no soap, I rub hand sanitizer into my face–it burns. I nearly drown myself in the sink trying to rinse it off.
Everything failed to subdue me. Soon everything seemed dull. another sunrise, the lives of heroes, failing love, war, the discoveries people made about each other. The only thing that did not bore me, obviously enough, was how much money Tim Price made, and yet in its obviousness it did.
For although a man is judged by his actions, by what he has said and done, a man judges himself by what he is willing to do, by what he might have said, or might have done – a judgment that is necessarily hampered, bot only by the scope and limits of his imagination.
A secret always has a strengthening effect upon a newborn friendship, as does the shared impression than an external figure is to blame. the men of the Crown have become united less by their shared beliefs, we observe, than by their shared misgivings–which are, in the main, externally directed.
He stood over the body in the fading light, adjusting the hair and putting the finishing touches to the simple toilet, doing all mechanically, with soulless care. And still through his consciousness ran an undersense of conviction that all was right—that he should have her again as before.
On foot, from necessity or in deference to his dismounted commander or associates, his conduct was the same. He would stand like a rock in the open when officers and men alike had taken to cover, while men older in service and years.
When battles are going on in open ground it frequently occurs that the opposing lines, confronting each other within a stone throw for hours, hug the earth as closely as if they loved it. The line officers in their proper places flatten themselves no less, and the field officers.
He once thought it himself, that he might die with grief. for his wife, his daughters, his sisters, his father and master the cardinal. But pulse, obdurate, keeps its rhythm. You think you cannot keep breathing, but your ribcage has other ideas, rising and falling, emitting sighs.
In short, I turned over on my face when I came to that, and got a good grasp on the hair on each side of my head, and wrenched it well. All the while knowing the madness of my heart to be so very mad and misplaced, that I was quite conscious it would have served my face right.
He buried her beside her husband. After the services were over and the few mourners had gone, he stood alone in a cold November wind and looked at the two graves, one open to its burden and the other mounded and covered by a thin fuzz of grass.
What was I after all? Near enough what Conchis had had me told. nothing but the net sum of countless wrong turnings. I dismissed most of the Freudian jargon of the trial, but all my life I had tried to turn life to fiction, to hold reality away.
Sometimes, when Chapuys has finished digging up bones and making his own life unfamiliar to him, he feels almost impelled to speak in defence of his father, his childhood. But it is no use to justify yourself. It is no good to explain. It is weak to be anecdotal.
Lyrical poetry is a realm in which any statement immediately becomes truth. Yesterday the poet said life is a vale of tears, today he said life is a land of smiles, and he was right both times. There is no inconsistency. The lyrical poet does not have to prove anything.